two uninhabited Pacific Islands more than 5,000 miles from the UK one will be inhabited by 14
British men while a separate island will be home to 14 British women for six weeks they
will be utterly alone with only the clothes they stand up in and a handful of basic tools
and fishing equipment how many fishing lines have you hooked up before film filming everything
themselves when pushed to the limits of human endurance will it be brute power or mental
strength the winds a day who will have what it takes
to
to stay alive tonight we follow the men's Island
every single time it's little old me I don't trust you survival will be harder than ever
they'll have to endure the height of the harsh tropical storm season
they'll have to find their own water and hunt for their own food you took the hook of the lot
and these Monday men oh got what it takes to survive
foreign
four weeks ago 14 British men were cast away on this remote Pacific Island hello
you can see Pierce's heart beating through his rib despite their best efforts
so
been able to find a sustainable source of food.
We need some decent food, we need it quick.
And the men are getting weaker by the day.
Exhausted.
There is absolutely no food in this camp.
The group's become increasingly fractured.
You tell any chef that cooking for 11 people
is physically easy and he'll stab you in the fucking eye.
So far, it's 47-year-old Vic,
the island's top hunter, who's managed to save the group
from starvation.
When in doubt, send Vic out!
If I laid back, a little bit further into the sun,
it would feel like I was on holiday.
Apart from the fact that later on,
I'm gonna have to walk half a mile
for one night.
Water, fish until we can eat,
and chop a load of firewood.
Potentially the shittest holiday anyone will ever go on.
The men have now been living on the island for a month.
Unable to find a reliable source of food,
they've had to survive on a meagre low-calorie diet
of limpets, coconut, and the occasional fish.
We are starting to starve.
We're not eating enough.
I mean, look, I've never seen my ribcage like that
since I was bloody 12 or 13.
I've got a bloody lollipop head.
It looks wrong size to my body.
It looks completely out of place.
There's nothing to me.
After four weeks on such an extreme, low-calorie diet,
the men are actually in danger of entering what's called,
autophagy.
And this literally means to self-eat.
Their bodies start to cannibalize themselves,
and if they don't find a sustainable food source
for the long-term, their physical condition
won't just be in decline, it'll be in free fall.
We'll start with Charlie, what are you doing?
I'm building. Phil?
I'm doing water and wood,
and then chipping in for whatever needs doing.
You're man.
For the exhausted men,
the morning meeting has become a vital way
of sharing out their daily chores.
Trapping assistant.
Good man.
Vic's gonna do water, wood,
and help anybody else doing whatever they need doing.
Sam?
The hunting is the thing
that I'm probably the most excited by.
For a personal level,
I don't think I've quite achieved my personal ambition yet.
My personal ambition would be to catch a vulture
or something like that.
It's a lot of effort to do, isn't it?
Will you be doing wood, then?
Well, when I get back, I can do wood, but...
You've got a master skill at avoiding that wood job,
haven't you?
If you don't bust a gut getting wood,
we're gonna run out, and everybody's gonna know
you were on wood, you were a lazy bastard.
The group has given Sam his orders for the day,
but he's not convinced.
Collecting firewood's important,
and I'll do my bit, definitely,
but I'd love to do a bit more hunting.
And, you know, it's that man against beast thing
that I really enjoy.
Yeah, this is not dangerous.
With around 30 liters of water
and up to 50 kilos of firewood to collect,
the men have a grueling morning ahead of them.
This wood is ridiculous.
Go on, man.
Look at this.
Go on, man.
Go on.
Let's roll.
Yay!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Against the express wishes of the group,
Sam has decided to spend the morning bird trapping
instead of chopping wood.
It's quite exciting.
So I'm under a little hide.
Not the best hide in the world, but a hide.
And I've got this little cord here.
And hopefully, the vulture's going to come down,
grab the meat, and I'll pull this rope,
and we'll be in business.
Let's just wait and see.
I work on foreign news stories.
The problem with news is you always go to
some of the nastiest places in the world.
I have been shot at.
I've had a near kidnapping.
But I try to avoid those sort of things as best I can.
I'm aware that I'm incredibly privileged.
You know, I haven't met the queen,
but I have had an amazing opportunity
to meet people from every different sphere of life.
I would hope that I'm not prejudiced.
I do have opinions, but I've got a bit of grace to me.
Dad, I'm hiding for a vulture.
And you're slightly spoiling it.
Where are you?
I'm hiding here.
Ready for a vulture.
Oh, for fuck's sake.
The whole point of the morning meeting
is to get distinct tasks.
If he's got a task,
he needs to complete the task before any passing.
Phe皇 night.
Now...
or it moves on to something else.
Softly, softly is not working anymore,
so we just need to be a bit more firm with people, I think.
Sam, we need you to stick to our tasks,
otherwise we're not gonna get shit done.
It's like nearly 11 o'clock and you haven't done any.
Good to do.
I'm heading there now,
and it's raining coconut for the doom trap as well.
But you're not doing traps, we're doing traps.
You're not doing traps, are you?
You just concentrate on what you're supposed to be doing.
If you've got a task, stick to it, complete it, finish it.
Right.
Good.
I don't know, I don't know.
Bloke Talk's a good, nice, posh game,
but failing to deliver in my book,
and an island where manual graft is king.
We all have to work and sweat.
Oops, now I ain't done jack shit.
Shall I drop this in then, me old brute?
Sam's reluctance to fall in with the others
is starting to affect his reputation in the group.
Do you know, I've given up trying to second-guess Sam Farmer.
He's his own man, he sort of exists in another world.
He's an airhead, isn't he, and he's...
Oh, yes, oh, yeah, er...
Vultures.
Exactly, he must get a bird trap.
And I think everyone feels the bird traps are a waste of time.
There's a bit of selfishness there.
I don't, I think...
But I don't think it means to be selfish,
I just think that's the way it's been brought on.
For me, and this is my opinion,
if that is something that Sam wants to do,
he'll work fucking hard for it.
Agreed. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I just think he's had his arse wiped for him for the most of his life.
And as a result, he doesn't realise
when he's possibly not mucking in as much as he could do
with others.
A lot of the guys here are kind of like,
I do hard graft, I come from this place, I don't come from that...
And they're a posh voice,
and the fact that they went to Eton,
I think some guys here...
just don't relate to him very well as the men continue to physically decline
the group is becoming fractured and it's as if they're judging each other not
only on their ability to contribute and find food but also in class prejudices
and that's coming to the fore an hour before nightfall a tropical storm hits
the island it's gonna rain it's coming in guys it's gonna rain when it rains it
rains faster it's hard the men have just minutes to secure the camp before it's
washed away
how's the fire Sam need some dry kindling
desperately need to protect the firewood
it's amazing because it's pouring of rain and under those trees it sort of
feels quite dark inside kind of panic don't stop don't stop and you come out
here onto the beach there's an incredible sunset over there and it's
just glistening on the water
the sun's just glistening on the water and it just feels really quite peaceful
actually really quite peaceful moment split some bamboo and we can make a
drain pipe to carry it down to the beach heavens absolutely opened enough to
wash out the entire camp all hands to the deck there are certain times when
some people need to pull their finger out and start working
Oh
I have had some monster fucking bogeys off this island bogeys monsters yeah that
must be one of the biggest bogeys I've ever had in my life eat it no calories
you dirty bastard I mean you're quite welcome to it fella if you want it I'm
absolutely fine thanks Vic I'm not that hungry yet mate very tasty after last night's
vicious storm the men's shelter is in urgent need of repair
I feel like a shire horse
I feel like a shire horse
I see that might work yeah that one never changes peers Dan and Sam Farmer
have been assigned the job of weaving new palms for the roof that's looks
pretty good that's not right it's not you're bending in the wrong way to start
with but Sam's struggling
I'm working now yes sir I don't know abandon my duty but I'm I'm actually
really crap at this weaving I don't want to abandon my duty but I'm actually really crap at this weaving
no one's good at it everyone shitters each other I can't actually get to work
though I spent 45 minutes pat it and I'm obviously doing something wrong you need
a lot more determination Sam just crack on with it just stay with it I've got to
pay to my strengths and one of my strengths isn't plastic
better fucking stick with it
we need to sort it out demand the fuck up anyone fishing now it's too rough
Sam Farmer is...
Sam Farmer is...
shirking some of the harder tasks and it's been noticed by a lot of members of
the group
I think some people in this group were working harder than others I don't want
to point any fingers but Sam I do have a bit of an issue with Sam Farmer at the
minute yeah he's getting under my skin just seems to potter about the place as
if he's looking for his butler sensing the group is starting to turn
against him Sam decides to approach one of his critics I hate tension and when
you can feel that someone's not quite at ease with you I think it's worth
nipping things in the bud early
Sam can I have a quick word?
I feel that you're a bit frustrated with me and I don't want to make a big deal out of it
a little bit man I am
can we talk about it later? I'm busy
actually...
Sam let's talk about it later okay? I'm working well there'll be plenty of time okay?
I'd rather talk it out now because it's in the air
and quite a few people mention it to me
Sam not now okay?
not now please let me finish this later on when we're having some food
five minutes?
no let me get this tree down and maybe okay?
not highly successful
never mind he's not happy
people are having a bit of a go at Sam Farmer and I'm finding it a bit mean really
Sam works really really hard but he works really hard on his own
and a lot of the things he wants to do he's getting a bit sidetracked in that regard
determined to stop the rift between Sam and the group getting any worse
Will takes him aside for a chat
I definitely think I'm putting my weight
but I think it could be perceived that you're doing the things that you want to do
I honestly don't mind what I do
and I know that I can see that
but if you're doing it on your own and no one's noticing
it doesn't get any kudos at all
how bad is the gossip you think?
quite bad
if I'm honest everyone's
it's yeah I mean that's why we're having this conversation
thanks Will thanks very much
the last few days have been quite frustrating
quite a bit of gunning down
I gossip you know what's Sam up to or what's he doing
and it's really hard it's really frustrating
because I really believe I genuinely believe that I'm working as hard as anyone else
and I'm giving my all and I'm putting my back into this
wanting to explain himself to the group Sam calls a meeting
I've actually found the last three weeks quite hard
I found the physical exhaustion that comes with a lack of food
really hard really really really hard
and I wanted to say thank you really first of all
to all you guys for being so amazing
and also for bearing with me
I haven't sort of almost been myself actually as much as I wanted to be myself
back in the big smoke I dare say that bloke's king of the hill
no two ways about it how he talks walks and conducts himself
a great mind's fantastic but we don't need great minds here
we're cavemen we need to sweat blood and guts
and if you're not then it stands out like a blind cobbler's thumb don't it
determined to prove his worth to the others
Sam has decided to resurrect the group's old fishing nets
we have not put one fish in the net yet
if we can get these nets out I feel that the sea is our larder
but having failed with a net several times already
the others aren't convinced by Sam's latest idea
these fucking nets waste more energy than anything else
the amount of calories and energy people have expended with no return
is unbelievable
I mean it's just nuts
with heavy weights and floats to get into position
Sam's enlisted the help of Barney to set the nets
Barney I'm smacked here
fuck
because there are a lot of rocks around here
dragging heavy fishing nets out to sea fighting the currents
is going to burn through hundreds and hundreds of calories
with so little energy in their body
for them it's going to probably feel like swimming through treacle
ok ready
one two three
go
gosh that was exhausting
exhausting
after treading water for over an hour
Sam and Barney can finally head back to dry land
how you going lads
where you got chaps
absolutely knackered
it was absolutely just shattering
we really really need to have
five minutes or ten minutes of rest
lie down do I've got some fish for you there he is the islands top fisherman
Vic is returning to camp after another successful outing with his line and pole
oh god damn boys about three in a puffer I have oh my god you hear it born and
bread kid man's a hero back right here champ is that okay with you sir yeah
lovely it's leaving there cuz the kaboom that's what we're having yeah can I take
these horrible fish off my exceptionally good fishing pole yes to come on that
thank you oh dear me nice feeling I have to know you're gonna actually feel some
food in your belly I was the old Nescau tiger
there's not a great deal to go round of the four fish Vic caught one is a
poisonous puffer fish leaving only three to share for lunch between eleven
ravenous men it's not gonna feed the 5,000 Sam is convinced his nets are the
group's best chance of breaking the famine
but it's not the end of the world
but it's not the end of the world
he can't man them alone I actually came out here to grab Barney for the net
there's wood to be got and it's not fair to leave two or three lads doing it
but I thought it was a 20-minute job what made you think that have you done a
full day on wood yet no that's why you think it's 20 minute job I know I think
you've done I think you have rolled them nets up out there and just go for a swim
every day listen this is what happened right when we get back we forgot about all these fish
surfs and we forgot about all these fish
institutional charges all this talk about thethey hate us and all this shit
people say to me what do you do and I'll say every day I sweat it as hard as I
could and I was just helpful as I could and they'll say Sam what are you doing
said it was a nightmare I had to swim every day for some fish
that were never thereمن't not clean never there my heart bleeds for you sound
yeah mine to bleeds you wait till we get the Teng sting-ray no palate you'll be
passion the other fur flies Moira ederim Turkey ship South Divide done it goes to estud mosque from I'll inhale air and sold undergraduate beat and you brains down years old!
Down south will work every inch of blood out of us.
I thought you were joking. And you'll smile when you do it.
There you go. Yeah, go for it, Sam.
Finish that baby off. I'll film you, you do it.
Yeah, I'd love to.
Man's not got a day's graft in him.
Not a fricking day's graft in him.
I shouldn't be hard on the bloke, because if you've never done it,
if you've had your ass wiped all your life, then so be it, you have.
Yeah.
I think Vic has made a judgement about me that, you know,
life's been incredibly easy.
And life has been easy in one sense.
I've had, you know, an incredible upbringing.
I've no embarrassment about the background I've come from
or the family I have or the school I went to
or the places I've been.
They are a huge blessing.
Oh, yeah. That's disgusting.
After just a few mouthfuls of fish for lunch,
tonight's dinner is looking even more bleak.
Limpets.
There is probably 15 each, you'll be pleased to know.
You can all fucking eat your 15 as well.
That's fucking horrible.
We're eating barely enough to survive.
We really need a haul of something,
a big catch to come in or an animal to catch.
It's so sapping here.
And I'm not quite sure how long we can struggle on for
without a decent feed.
Not too much pressure, but if you don't get any food,
we're fucked, yeah, boys? So, yeah, thanks.
Now released from wood duty, Sam sets off to check his nets.
I'm feeling positive.
Despite the group's hostility, Sam's convinced his nets will work.
I refuse pessimism to seep in.
Absolute refusal.
Optimism it is, then. Optimism it is.
Sam knows that a big fish haul can mean not only salvation for the group,
but would also restore his reputation.
It's quite a long way out, isn't it? Yeah, it is.
Argh!
Nothing.
Oh, it's just what I want to hear.
It's just so depressing.
It's done so much work.
Oh...
Very predictable.
It's a waste of energy, time, fuel, everything.
Stop fannying around and start doing something worthwhile.
Morning!
And what a beautiful marina it is.
After a month on the island, the exhausted men are doing their best to share the most
arduous daily chores between them.
If you keep walking to the kitchen, you're going to find the water, it's almost there.
But yesterday, Sam angered the group by prioritising his fishing nets over firewood.
Sam checked nets, which brought absolutely diddly squads, I'm afraid to say, a big fat
nothing.
So there's a bit of tension between the rest of us.
Pretty good.
OK, let's start off the day.
Who's doing what this war is?
Yeah, I'm doing fishing net.
I know it's a bit selfish.
No, just get stuck into wood.
Don't make it a token effort.
Get stuck into wood.
We need wood.
Lots of it.
The nets aren't delivering jack shit.
We're pissing in the wind with them.
I do feel put upon, actually, a little bit this morning, just by the comments.
It's just maddening.
It's absolutely maddening to be criticised and to be put down.
It's really, really hard.
And I had to be biting my tongue.
Let's make a bow, actually.
Do you want to talk to them?
Yeah, I might have a chat with them.
After days of criticism, Sam is determined to get to the bottom of Vic's hostility.
Vic?
Yeah?
Do you trust me?
I would never trust a stranger.
Am I a stranger?
At first, you were.
OK.
It's taken me longer to get used to you than it has any of the other guys, because they
sound a little bit like me.
You're the first person I've ever met that actually speaks like this.
Am I suffering your prejudice because of a bad experience?
From where I come from?
From where I come from?
Yeah.
We vote one, three, four years on a government, yeah?
Yeah.
And the person we vote for speaks like you.
And we put every last vestige of trust in that person.
And then you dick us every single time.
I have more respect for a man who will break through my front door and steal my telly when
I'm on holiday than I do that man that tells me on, that does this and don't point because
it's rude and emphasises with his hands, and he's got a great speaking voice and Boris
and all that sort of shit.
I have no respect whatsoever because they are thieving, lying, clever people with affluence
and money and a good voice and a fantastic education.
Vic, you're basically saying you're all the same.
That's what you're basically saying.
But yes, which is perhaps lack of education, lack of understanding, lack of experience.
Which is because I'm trapped in a working class life.
People with power and influence, they just abuse the little man every time.
Do you assume I do have power and influence?
I mean, it's little old me.
It's little old me.
But it's difficult to get rid of all them years of listening to people with accent
and class, tell you one thing and do a totally different thing because then you don't trust
them at all.
So unfortunately, I don't trust you.
Yeah.
Interesting.
It was hard to hear.
I hate conflict.
I have a choice, either just to try and ignore it.
Or I can try and embrace it and show him that actually I'm very different from those
that have put him down in the past.
And my hope is that he will see me by the end of this experiment.
He will see me as a person who's on his side.
For centuries, you know, the British have been totally class driven, almost class obsessed.
And it's like a pathological disorder where people get fixated on what they're doing.
Where they feel they stand in that pecking order.
Are they lower, middle or upper classes?
But if the men are going to survive here, they've got to put aside those prejudices
and work as a team.
Right, people.
The fishing wheel will go.
I'm away, boys.
Catch some supper.
Let's have some fish.
We can all have a decent meal.
With nothing to eat in camp.
The starving men have decided to use their last reserves of energy
on one big concerted effort to find food.
Jesus Christ.
Oh, fuck, yes.
Get him.
Get him.
Got him, got him, got him.
Fuck.
OK.
Oh, his tail snapped off.
Didn't a bloody snake do that?
Despite opposition from the rest of the group,
Sam has decided to persevere with his nets.
You just have to keep trying, keep trying, keep trying.
Sometimes you fail, and sometimes you're successful.
We have a first victim down there.
Oh, you say then?
Being the top fish catcher.
Pressure's on.
Yeah, the pressure is on.
But I also think the mark of a man is in rising to pressure.
We still haven't got anything, anything,
anything, anything.
Desperately, desperately need food.
After five exhausting hours, the men have found nothing for dinner.
Jesus Christ, look at the fucking...
You bastard!
Took the hook and the lot.
That's bad.
Fuck all.
Even the island's top fisherman, Vic, has had to admit defeat.
Son of a bitch.
I'm gutted.
I really wanted to bring in a nice haul for guys tonight to eat,
do you know what I mean?
Fuck!
Exhausted, starving hungry and despondent,
the men gather back in camp.
So what's the plan, guys?
Try not to slash my wrist.
Without a single scrap of food to show for a day's hunting,
the group are out of options.
Save one unlikely potential saviour.
What would you feel about all of us getting the net in today?
Let's say after this meeting, we all troop down there.
I mean, I'm being a bit hopeful.
How do we empty the nets?
You've got to bring them in.
Going to have to pull them in.
Ooh, fuck it, I'll fight.
I think it'd be quite good if we could pull together
and get these things done.
Yeah, fuck it, count me in.
Two crack on?
Fair enough.
Yes, I'll come in the water and pull a net, yeah?
Brilliant. Brilliant.
Sounds good to me.
Yeah. Yeah?
Sounds good.
Ready to go?
Go.
Come on, boys.
Bring home the bacon.
Bring home the fish.
That's some fishies.
In desperation, the men agree to give Sam's nets a final chance.
If you don't give up, I'll give him that blessing.
But they are now making a dangerous gamble
with their last reserves of energy.
Please be fishing this net.
OK, are you ready?
Ready, ready.
One, two...
Yes!
Nowhere!
There's a lot of whooping coming from those nets, people.
Where do you go, lads?
Fuck me.
Hooray!
How many do you think you've got, Sam?
I don't know.
Jesus Christ.
That's the first one, boys.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah?
Oh, there's the second one, boys.
And the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh.
Oh, God.
I'm telling you.
Look at them coming out.
Yeah!
Woo!
Ah!
Look at them!
Come on!
Come on!
Come on!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Come on!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Come on!
Yeah!
Fucking awesome, man.
Well done, man.
Well done.
Well done, fella.
Well done.
Well done, mate.
Fucking excellent.
I have a new family.
I respect.
I really do.
That is brilliant.
That was the hardest thing I've done in a long time.
Fuck!
A big fishy hook for the old man and the fish.
Get in there, boys.
Get in there.
Thank you, Vic.
Thank you.
Very kind.
Finally, the net's come good.
And that's all Sam Farmer's doing.
He's been working tirelessly to get that.
I think that Sam's going to be kind of accepted as more a part of the team now.
Shit, love.
Shit.
That looks heavy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That looks heavy.
Okay, guys.
The first fish.
Yes.
Second.
Hello.
Good size.
Third.
Second.
All I wanted was just a fish.
One fish.
How many fishes have we got?
Twenty-one!
Gentlemen of the net.
Well done, guys.
Twenty-one little fishies.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
remark
Dishes for the dishes.
Dinner is ready, boy.
Nice.
It just goes to show you, the reality is, in a survival situation, it's the ultimate
systematic leveler, there's only one class that matters, survival class.
Sam's determination has been amazing with MNets.
I am really happy that you can see that.
Yes, I couldn't.
I won't deny it.
I couldn't see it at all.
I just thought, well, you're a big city.
But the big city fan, he's done good.
Sam Farmer, my heart comes off to you, sir.
Well done, you, for having the balls and the determination
to fix them every time,
because that certainly weren't my cup of tea at all.
Well done, him. Thank you.
I'd just like to say a massive thanks
and a raise like any other to Sam Farmer.
Sam Farmer!
Well done, big fella. Founder of the Fishy Feast.
Here we are. Here we are.
Well made at last, fella.
Last night, the men had a hearty 21-fish supper,
thanks to Sam Farmer's nets.
But following the feast, 36-year-old Will
is the only member of the group who's out of bed.
It's, uh...
Up past eight, no-one's awake.
They're gonna make a lot of noise.
It's up past eight.
Sun's been up for two and a half hours.
Normally, I'd finish our morning meeting by now.
So...
Will's worried the men aren't making the most
of the feast.
They're worried about the energy they got from last night's meal.
I take it we're all going up.
Morning!
I'm glad you woke me up, pal. I'd have slept in.
Morning.
This is a complete one-off, unique opportunity.
I want to wring out every last possible experience out of it.
I think we need a general camp wake-up call.
It was half past eight and most people were still in bed.
We sat round this campfire every night and said,
oh, yeah, I want to go romping round the island,
I want to catch a piggy, I want to get caiman,
I want to do traps, I want to do this, I want to do that,
doing all these things, but two and a half hours of daylight's gone.
You know, I think it's just a bit of a shame.
Are you insisting we get up? No, I'm not insisting.
I know somebody was upset this morning
because it was a crescendo of boom, boom, boom, for an hour.
You can bang boxes and kick and...
It's all you want. We're all grown-ups.
Nobody's telling me what time to get up.
I know, I'm not telling you... I am finished.
Nobody's telling me what time to get up. I'll get up when I'm getting up.
Vic, you're making it sound like I was doing that on purpose
to try and wake you up. No, not at all. Were you?
No, of course not. Then why would I think that?
I just laid there laughing, thinking, that's quite funny.
You be making noises, you be wanting us to wake up,
me wanting us to wake up at half past eight,
you were banging boxes and crashing and banging,
and I was laughing to myself.
I'm going to stay in bed and prove a point.
A bit childish.
How old are you?
11am.
The men finally crack on with the day's business.
We've got a fish!
Having been out overnight,
Sam Farmer's nets are continuing to bear fruit.
There's another fish below you as well.
Oh, my God, this is awesome.
I tell you what, we've got enough fish to eat tonight, so that's good.
How was it? Awesome. Absolutely awesome.
They're both grinning like Cheshire cats.
It's got to be good news.
The bag is full.
A bit of a tiddler, sorry.
Yeah!
The yellowfiller bag!
I want tuna!
I love tuna.
That net's working treat for them, isn't it?
Big tuna.
Ooh, another different type of tuna.
18.
18.
Right, filleting.
The key is in the care of these tuna is the firmness of the flesh, see?
Yeah.
Yeah, see, that's gone. Sorry, boys.
That is gone.
The men are paying a heavy price for their late start to the day.
Oh, look at that.
We have wasted a lot of fish today
because we have got pulleys in too late.
Yeah, we don't know. A lot of fish.
And this one as well.
At the moment, I'm having a real problem with fish getting caught in the net
going rotten.
You put the nets overnight, the fish could have been caught at one in the morning,
they could have been caught at 11 last night.
All of a sudden, you get to 10 o'clock this morning,
you've been sat in a net for 12 hours going off.
It's 11 o'clock and we've only just pulled the fish in.
I think we need to get out of bed.
Faster.
Get out of bed earlier, yeah.
I think we'll just have a morning call.
Go, right, 7.30, everyone up.
I don't want to waste any more fish
because we can't be bothered getting out of bed
and now checking the nets.
Once again,
the group's food situation looks bleak.
You need to head around this bit.
With no food in camp, fishing with a rod and line
is now the men's best hope of catching something for dinner.
Don't be too long, mate. We've got a long way back, yeah?
Will is an incredible man for his energy
and his ability to keep not just motivated
but to keep the enthusiasm to follow his ideas through
when he's running on empty just like the rest of us.
It's really quite impressive.
I'm going to head around, OK?
To get to the best fishing spot,
they must navigate the island's treacherous coastline
at high tide.
I think one of the most critical skills in survival generally
is just awareness, you know, an ability to kind of assess
and just take your time and think through things
before you actually act.
But here's the danger.
The more malnourished, the more their judgement gets impaired
and that's when they can end up taking risks
that can put their lives in jeopardy.
Your house is looking a bit tasty down there, isn't it?
Stop, mate. Stop.
Have we left it a bit late?
Right, boys, this is where it's going to get naughty.
Whoo! It's like that big diving board in Sheffield Arena.
Too high.
Too high.
What's happening, mate?
We've got some big ones coming, so let's wait.
The idea is to watch them coming in,
wait for a flat spot and go for it.
Hold!
Hold!
There he's gone!
Back!
Oh, shit!
There!
Whoo-hoo!
Right, step, step, hand, yeah?
Well done.
Next!
One pierce.
Now pierce. Push off.
Push off, push off, push off.
Hand, hand, hand.
There we go. Bingo, Stella.
Whoo! Big whirl!
Well, if I were you, I'd come a bit further along.
Camera.
I can go all the way around.
There's no hole. There's no hole.
You can't get all the way around.
Wrong incline.
Vic, I'll not be able to make this with the camera.
That's OK. I'm just ready for you coming along.
Vic, go across, yeah?
Steady away.
That's fine. Easy to do that.
You all right?
Yep.
Fucking Jesus.
Be careful!
Turn around, face the rocks.
Yeah, check for loose rocks.
Right, aim for the hand, aim for the hand.
Keep hold, keep hold, keep hold.
There you go, there you go, there you go.
Holy shit!
You OK? You OK?
OK.
OK, just come up.
Get the fucking camera off!
I'm sorry.
Get the fucking camera off.
I'm sorry.
Stay still. Stay still.
Are you OK?
Give me a, give me a...
Let's get off the danger area and then assess the catch,
OK?
OK, that's nasty.
Will is losing blood and is in a state of shock.
Let's move on before we get stuck again, OK?
Yep.
Dr Pearce needs to get him back to camp urgently
so he can examine the injury properly.
Son of a bitch.
I tell you what, that was a massive fall.
Totally unexpected.
To see that cut was pretty scary.
We'll get your blood done.
Yeah.
OK.
Will.
Will.
Dude.
It's actually quite serious.
Nice house.
Oh, shit.
Dr Pearce can finally make a proper assessment.
What is that you can see underneath it?
Is that muscle or is that bone?
I think he's severed one of his tendons.
It's bad.
I mean,
I wouldn't be happy just to patch that up here.
No, I wouldn't either.
No.
Oh.
No.
is to patch that up here.
That needs a surgical exploration in an operating theatre.
If I have to go, I'm really devastated.
And at the end of the day, Will,
remember you're right-handed, it's your livelihood,
and we've got to be sensible and realistic.
Fuck. Not good at all, this.
OK, guys.
Just give me a minute, yeah? Give me a minute, lads.
He's such a valued part of our team.
If he leaves, I would totally feel gutted.
So I'm dead.
I'm really desperate for him to stay with us.
Knowing Will's injury is serious,
Dr Pearce has no option but to call the emergency paramedic team
for a second opinion.
Do you think he's gone off your arms?
I do, yeah.
I want him to go, in fact.
It's something that can't be dealt with on the island, OK?
You need a surgeon that's trained,
you need a sterile operating theatre.
It's real no-braining.
He's gone quite deep.
Is it Gors there? OK.
Injury is muscular and not just superficial,
so he needs to be evacuated.
OK, hold on.
ASAP, Ella.
Get your stuff together, OK?
All right, fantastic.
Keep those for me, guys.
After five weeks on the island, Will's time is over.
Smallest things, and it's just a simple fall like that,
and it's cut my experience off.
Oh, mate, I'm so fucking sorry.
You've been a fucking hero, mate, you really have.
Guys, we need to go right now.
I don't care what anyone says,
we've effectively had a leader out here,
and it's been Will's best effort.
He's done it. He's done it.
It's been Will's best effort here, and it's been Will's.
He's led by example, he's led by inspiration.
Thank you, buddy.
When people can't be asked or don't want to do something,
he's done it himself, and he's filmed the whole thing as well.
The man-spinning machine.
I think we'll regress to kind of ape men.
Will now, he's gone.
See you soon, Will!
Oh, he's got a sub on, hasn't he? Bless him.
Yeah, I think he's upset.
See you soon!
Good luck, Will. Good luck.
All right, fella? Yeah.
Yeah? No, listen, it's how it works.
You did your best, that's how it works.
I never imagined that I'd be so gutted,
so disappointed, so kind of upset with one of us leaving.
Especially in the last few days, I've gotten with him so well,
and I've really made a really good friend of him.
Next time, on the final instalment of The Women's Island...
No supper for us tonight.
I'm starved.
You're doing a poo in the ocean? Yeah. What?!
We are completely dysfunctional as a group.
We need leadership.
Well, you're not here for the team any more.
Are you trying to start an argument? I'm asking that for you.
You are trying to start an argument. Do you know what?
Jamie, you're a fucking fag.
We're going to end up killing each other by the end of this.
It's going to get really bad.
I'm telling you, I can't get over it.
It's about onions, not onions.
I know the onions.
Theyrada was dead, she's dead, but she's alive.
Well, I don't have a lot of diamonds.
Next time on, you know, thoroughly ousted children?
That's right, I'm going to end up with them all.
You don't know what it's gonna be like.
him des bic cam reported he will quietly leave the gym.
He is ollut since the beginning.
That's a shame.
What do you mean?
What?
