two uninhabited Pacific Islands more than 5,000 miles from the UK one will be inhabited by 14
British men while a separate island will be home to 14 British women for six weeks they'll be
utterly alone with only the clothes they stand up in and a handful of basic tools filming everything
themselves when pushed to the limits of human endurance hello you can see Pierce's heart beating
through the rib will it be brute power or mental strength the Windsor day who will have what it
takes to stay alive
tonight we follow the women's island survival will be harder than ever they'll have to find
water and hunt for their own food that is the biggest shocker I've ever seen living on the
island in the middle of tropical storm season we expected to survive it when pitted against
the extremes of nature
and these Monday women got what it takes to survive guys come back here really slowly
it's been almost three weeks since I dropped 14 women off on this remote Pacific Island radio in
now medic now
they're three people down I thought she'd hang on in there and with fewer women to hunt and food running
dangerously low surely I'm gonna die soon spa owner Abby one of the oldest of the women has kept the
group together she encouraged the others to make a difficult but necessary survival choice to eat
their pet pigs I don't know about anyone else but I feel like a wild animal
what's your assessment of the situation hairdresser there's a vocabulary for hairdressers so as not to offend the client so I'm always subtle in my work so I'd say it's f***ing had it
after weeks on the island stripped of all luxuries Abby is improvising in her island salon with a novel blue rinse it's probably permanent boat paint or something
it's probably permanent boat paint or something
basins are over there the junior will see to it
quite happy now I've done a bit of hairdressing
oh look at the colour of the sea that's what we want to swim in
in a group like this when you're really starving and struggling all you need is that one person to kind of shine a little beacon of light and say something really witty and funny
and Abby is that person
it's 95 pound please
the oven's broken
thanks chef
oh my god
it's been days since women ate the piglets and they haven't had a decent meal since
can I have it with sand please I don't think I've got enough sand in my mouth
they're back to eating scraps of foraged coconut and yucca
and starvation isn't fair
and their wife is far away
did you notice it was on fire
oh wow
you're getting a really burnt one
with some eating as little as a dangerously low 200 calories a day
any stores they started off with are basically gone
so the women need to go all out to increase their food intake and their lives are going to depend on that
I'm psyched like you did
spit that out
it's too burnt
that's disgusting i was saying a couple of days ago in jest that i feel like my body's
digesting itself but i just know more i am eating myself from the inside i'm just hoping that we can
get some food do you know what my favorite thing to do at the minute is i go to the imaginary
supermarket in my head with a shopping trolley empty and go up and down the aisles and do
shopping i spent about 10 minutes in the jam and condiments section yesterday did you what did you
get well i mean i went to the i bought marmalade i got shredded and smooth in the edge because i
didn't know what to do and i was going along because i'd obviously bought the imaginary pate
so that i needed to debate which imaginary condiment would go best and then i got to
the bakery and i didn't know whether i wanted crusty bread or soft bread this is the mind of
a lunatic in terms of survival skills i think i'm quite mentally strong
and i'm not a person who's just going to go around doing a lot of stuff but i'm not a person who's
going to do a lot of stuff and i'm not going to go around doing a lot of stuff and i'm not going to
i'm not going to go around doing a lot of stuff and i'm not going to do a lot of stuff and i'm not going to
I don't think there's much that will rattle me,
but then I've never really been pushed to my limits before.
The biggest challenge is being able to go for a long period
without a good dinner in my belly.
I don't think myself as a natural hunter-gatherer,
but in 34 years, nothing's got between me and Emil yet.
So if there's food on that island, I'll find it.
Unable to digest yucca,
the women's breakfast is not agreeing with Georgina.
I've been sick again. I can't stop.
Oh, my God!
I don't know what I'm... There's nothing to suck up, though.
Are you drinking enough?
Yeah, I've just tried to drink a little more.
I'm driving you mad.
Camp doctor Belinda is concerned about Georgina's condition.
George literally exists on a couple of limpets a day
and maybe a couple of snails.
She does not eat more than about that much tiny square of coconut a day,
so she's probably consuming
under 20 calories per day.
And it's just not sustainable.
Georgina's inability to digest their limited diet
means she could be putting her vital organs at risk.
You had some recting, yeah?
Yeah, well, this is one of the major reasons
why I'm worried about your kidneys.
So we'll just get your temperature.
I mean, I can literally feel my muscles within my body.
They're really wasting away.
Er, and I just heard that was messed up at one of them.
I just need to get some food. Just something.
Because if I don't, then it could be endgame for me, really,
with regards to being on the island.
Off we go.
Everyone is now pitching in to try and find protein that they can share
with Georgina.
A group led by Abi are scouring the shoreline.
They're very hard to get off.
Look at the size of that monster.
Can I have a try? You can.
Just have a try at just banging it.
Do you say that to your boyfriend?
Yeah!
Limp it.
So you've got the cool, the warms and the natural,
so that's got to slight.
It's got a lilac-y tinge in it, but it's nice.
I run my own business.
Sales for last month is really, really good.
I like being in charge of people and a team.
I'll work at something till I am successful at it.
I have a bad back.
It causes me quite a lot of problems and quite a lot of pain.
I get through it and I don't let it stop me doing anything at the moor.
I'll snow ski, I'll ride, I'll push myself.
Good lad.
First day we came up... Yeah. ..they were like,
Yeah.
..on that back wall.
There's just no bloody limpets.
It's like we've eaten them all.
It's warm down there.
Yeah, well, I'm not going down there to get down there.
It's not where you've been for a while.
I'm not risking my life to get a frigging limpet.
No chance.
With limpets few and far between,
the women desperately need to find a protein-rich meal for Georgina.
Get the knife! Get the knife!
What is that? Get the machete!
Where's the machete?
Just get the fucking machete.
Georgia spotted a stingray in the shallows.
Wow! It's fast!
Oh, no chance.
How fast did that move?
That was like lightning fast.
Where did the bottles go?
The miss has cost them a potential 4,000-calorie meal.
We would have had a proper belly food, you know, proper belly food.
As opposed to this much dried coconut every day.
Georgina must once again go to bed hungry.
But she's not the only one who's suffering.
I've got pants as my pillow and smelly socks.
47-year-old Abi has been diagnosed
with back pain since a horse-riding accident in her teens.
Oh, God.
Abi's not happy. She's in pain.
So, I hope she's OK.
Since arriving on the island, she's been sleeping on the hard ground.
I have nowhere comfortable I can go.
Honestly, it's laying down on the floor.
I think my back's absolutely screwed.
It's really hard to explain,
because it's not something you can see.
And it is my health,
and it's not something that anyone can help me with.
I don't want to be a liability to anyone else
and not be able to do the things that I came to do,
which was to help and be a grafter.
So, I've got the scales here.
I've calibrated them and set the dial to zero.
But it's all the women's health that's a concern for Dr Belinda.
After noticing the steep decline in Georgina's physical condition,
she wants to closely monitor the group's weight loss.
Abi!
I used to go to Slimming Club, right, every Monday.
I feel like I'm back there.
If I am ten and a half stone today, I'll be a happy bunny.
£135.
Got my goal.
In 21st-century Britain, we're all obsessed with body image.
But when the pounds are dropping off
because of starvation and malnutrition,
it's a dangerous mindset to have,
and it really is not a cause for celebration.
But you can see your waist is tiny-ton round.
Let me see your tiny little waist.
Aw, look at that little waist.
SHE LAUGHS
George.
You've lost a lot.
You're wasting away, aren't you, sweetheart?
I have to say, I don't find starvation a good way of losing weight.
I don't think we should be celebrating.
I just don't find starvation a sexy weight to get skinny.
Georgina has lost a dangerous £21 in weight,
and collectively, the group have lost almost ten stone,
the weight of an entire person.
We're at a critical stage where our bodies have got no food...
..and so can't sustain themselves.
We're not on a diet.
We're starving.
Concerned about their dramatic weight loss,
Georgina calls a group together.
I do feel like I may have nosedived
in terms of food deprivation a lot quicker than the rest of you.
I can see that I've been a lot weaker than the rest of you.
And I really do think that food still needs to be number one priority.
I just don't know how long we can sustain five limpets.
I don't think we can.
I think we're all a little bit in denial
about how critical it is that we start finding food.
The need to find protein for Georgina is now urgent.
With only a few hours of daylight left,
a group led by Lauren are setting traps.
And the hope is snaring a pig.
Nice little track, isn't it?
Unless you're wanting to survive off shredded old pits of coconut
and the old yucca plant,
then it's time to face up to the fact
that I'm going to have to maybe, you know, get a bit brutal.
Are you ready?
Yeah, it works.
Yeah.
Rise and shine, beautiful.
It's a glorious day.
7am.
And the women have endured another bad night's sleep.
Oh, bloody hell.
In pain, 47-year-old Abi confides in her closest friend, Beth.
Every night when I said, this is the time I dread,
I'm so uncomfortable.
Even just turning from my back to my right
is like a knife going into the nerve.
It's like, argh!
I'm now really concerned.
She hasn't really moaned.
One of Abi's problems is that she's worried
that she doesn't like giving up.
She likes to keep going and keep going.
She's such a hard worker.
She's just fucking amazing.
Let's see what's in this sucker.
She's a proper, proper grafter.
And I love that.
But her mind is saying one thing and her body's saying something else
and she's got to listen to her body.
At camp, Abi calls an urgent meeting.
Over the last few days, my back's gone downhill massively
to the point where I'm in a lot of pain
and it's now worse than it's ever been.
I know certain people here,
kind of said, do less.
I wouldn't... I wouldn't be happy doing less.
But the fact is, I have to get off the island
because I'm not helpful to you anymore.
I'm really sorry and I feel like a shit.
I can't... I actually can't believe it.
I'm just completely shocked.
I knew that she was in pain, I knew that she was having back pain,
but it's just happened so fast.
I'm really gutted to see you go
because I think we could have done really well here with you
and I think we'd be a little bit weaker without you.
I would be lying if I said there wasn't a part of me now
that is completely terrified because there is only ten of us.
Because everything now is going to be completely harder.
And I can't imagine how we're going to get through
and we're going to feed ourselves.
I think hunger's going to become such a problem.
And me pussy mate.
I don't know what I'm going to do.
So sad.
I'm annoyed for her that she had to go because of her back.
And I'm annoyed for me that I'm going to have to stay out here.
But we just got on really well
and it was just really nice to know that she was there.
Bye.
I miss you already, come back!
I don't know about you, but I feel thoroughly fed up.
Yeah.
I feel as a group, get smaller and smaller,
you're like, how are we meant to do this?
Exactly.
How on earth are we meant to do this?
Exactly.
Yeah, it's shit.
It's really shit.
The group has lost Abi, one of their most valued members.
Now they'll each have to work
even harder to find food for 34-year-old Georgina,
who is dangerously weak from starvation.
How do I have the patience for that, Lauren?
Neither do I, really, but...
I really want to eat something.
The women haven't caught a single fish
since they first stepped foot on the island.
They're attempting to set nets for the first time.
I'm literally solely focused on getting through the days
and getting food.
And I'm going to go after it, and I'm going to get it.
And I'm going to get it for the other girls as well, you know?
I feel sorry for George,
because he's just been absolutely nailed by illness,
and so failure is not an option.
Whoa!
That's not even stable at all.
Hello!
On a desert island, one of your best sources of food
is obviously going to come from the sea,
but none of the women are able to do that.
None of the women are experienced at sea fishing,
so the reality is it's going to take them hours and hours
of painstaking trial and error,
being patient if they're going to hone their skills.
It's as sturdy as we're going to get it.
Who knows? Could be fish tonight.
It's now 12 hours since Lauren and the group set the nets.
I'm hoping that we've got about ten fish in our net.
Come on, net. Do us good. Do us good.
Their last hope of feeding Georgina tonight
rests on a decent haul.
There's one of our floats.
Is the net here? Is it?
Is there a fish in it? No.
Ah! Bastard.
That's such a shame.
I don't know if we'll ever be able to untangle that net.
No, we're not.
How the fuck are we going to catch fish?
I feel pathetic today. No.
Honestly, I haven't been able to function at all today.
With no fish and Georgina's health hanging in the balance,
it's a race against time to find food.
To make sure these women have a fighting chance of survival,
I've made sure that the island's got enough water,
indigenous animals and vegetation on it to keep them alive,
but only if they've got the ingenuity to find it, catch it and kill it.
Fingers crossed.
Yesterday, Lauren and Beth set animal traps
in the island's jungle interior.
They're going back to see if they've been successful.
Something has eaten the bait but not set off the trap.
Got the knife.
It's not a game and it's a long time without food
and we can't survive without food.
I think it's about time that, you know,
we get out there and start hunting some animals.
One of my main things that's pushing me for this challenge
is finding out who I am.
Can I survive? Can I hunt for my own food?
We don't do that nowadays.
Super cheesy lasagne.
Cheesy dip.
Johnson cheesy dip.
Just think it's getting back to our animalistic roots
and what happens if you have to go hunting for it,
kill it yourself, skin it or whatever, and then cook it.
It's been set off.
It has.
Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
They've caught a pig by its leg in one of their traps.
Fuck!
That is one huge pig.
I can't believe that.
Before killing it, Lauren and Beth decide to return to camp
to plan and prepare their tools.
Oh, my God, we're going to eat tonight. I know.
Like we've never eaten before.
Yay!
Georgie, we've caught one.
We've caught a pig.
You are kidding me. No.
Because there's a pig in the trap.
We literally walked in and heard this noise.
It's right there. Yeah.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Everybody needs that food,
but I recognise that I really need that food.
It's a little bit of a mental feeling.
And who knew that a pig in a snare would...
..would feel like such an emotional thing?
We're just going to have to absolutely throw our bodies at it.
Don't look at it in the eye.
Don't have your eyes wide and looking at it,
so don't show any of your teeth.
Approach it really quietly. OK.
And so, once we've got it on the ground,
you need to tie its hooves together
and we're also letting loose its neck,
so someone will have to be pulling on its neck.
Does anyone else want to kill the pig?
I don't feel confident that I could.
I don't know enough.
If you need help at any stage, I'm more than happy to help.
Yeah. OK.
At the minute, I'm the only one in the house
at the minute, I'm the only one in the group
that could actually physically kill an animal
because no-one else wants to do it.
And so I feel that's a responsibility as well.
I don't see them as an animal any more,
which is so strange for me.
I love animals to pieces,
but I just feel completely detached from that now.
It's been over an hour
since Lauren and Beth found the pig in the trap.
A decisive kill is in store.
It is now crucial to the whole group.
I'm going to go for the head.
Then I'm going to go for the legs.
I'm ready to go.
So come in with your hooves,
and I'm going to go with the side of the leg.
So you've got it.
Get in.
Someone grab this.
Come round this side.
Beth, come round this side.
The trap.
OK, right.
Make some moves.
Hang on.
Right.
OK, Beth.
Step.
Beth.
Try and...
Fuck.
Fuck's sake.
That's...
That's so frustrating.
We lived and learned on that one.
I think that you need to get on him quicker.
I feel like I fucked that one up.
Damn it.
Damn it.
Could have bloody...
And now I feel like we've let down everybody else.
You know, the ones waiting at camp, thinking,
oh, they've got a pig and they're eating tonight.
And George isn't very well.
She's being sick.
So...
Yeah.
Nice.
Good.
Good.
All right.
How much we got?
Not enough.
Could do with a bit more of everything.
Maybe around the next bit.
But I think we've exhausted this little section.
With the hunter failure, Georgina has no choice but to join Georgie and Becky on another
bleak search for shellfish.
It's so hot, isn't it?
Yeah.
It's really humid.
Really hot.
Already weak from malnutrition, the effort is further depleting Georgina's dainties.
Yeah.
We've got a little bit of everything.
There's some more.
creating Georgina's dangerously low reserves.
The function of my being is struggling.
I feel like the switch has been turned off every time I stand up.
I don't know what to do about it, either.
It's like a vicious circle. You need the energy to get the food.
But you haven't got the energy without the food.
I honestly don't know where these girls are getting their energy from.
Swim time! It certainly is.
Let's go for a swim, babe. Yeah.
I'm just really worried about how weak I am.
I just don't want to be the person who's, like, a dead weight.
You're not going to be. And you're not going to be.
But I feel like I am. It's just so not like me.
I don't know if I'm going to be the person I want to be.
Honestly, it's like the lights have gone off,
and it's really...
..it's really quite alarming.
Listen, you are not... Thank you.
Listen, you are not leaving this island, right?
For one, listen to me. But I do.
Listen, you are not leaving this island to the fucking end game, right?
I don't care if I have to carry you on my fucking back, and nor does she.
And you would. And I would. Totally. And I would.
I would.
I'm really, really worried about Georgia Kay.
Literally, I'm watching her deteriorate before my eyes.
She's not eating the yucca, she's not very keen on the limpets,
and I'm just really worried she's not going to make it, to be honest.
The one thing we need for George is food.
Who knows? Maybe we can get one more island miracle
and turn George's fate around, which would be amazing.
So far, all the women's attempts
at hunting and fishing on the island have failed.
Oh, look! Like pot noodle. Yeah.
Desperately hungry, they've resorted to scavenging
for nourishment on the beach.
Budweiser!
Full of sea water.
What's that? Some perfume.
Men's perfume. It's like that.
Oh, now I'm getting horny!
Oh, first time I've thought about a man.
Jamie could hump this smell.
Maybe if you wear that, I might start humping you. Oh, gosh.
The women have been living on an extreme low-calorie diet for weeks,
and the health of one of the group is causing grave concern.
I'm really worried about George.
She sleeps all the time, she's been sick.
She's just not well.
I don't know whether she's going to last.
Who are we going to talk about food with?
We can't afford to lose anyone else in this group.
One rich source of food on the island is its bird life.
Catching one of the island's larger birds could mean 2,000 calories
to share with Georgina.
Now, I have no idea if this will work.
We can only try.
Psychotherapist Havilah has fashioned a bird trap
out of a stick, some string and a coconut.
I'm going to put my trap in here.
This is quite good territory.
Birds are often flocking here.
We don't want to get nice, pretty birds.
But to lure her prey, she's going to need bait.
Oh, there's a hermit crab.
I don't want to do this.
Not very good at machetes.
Hello, beautiful.
Go on, go to Daddy.
One, two, three.
My dad has been a pigeon racer from a young age,
so I understand birds.
I know how to handle them, I know what to do.
And if it comes to it...
I'll kill one.
No, no, no, no, no.
I wouldn't take any pleasure from it.
I don't really want to kill anything,
but I could if I'm hungry.
In those situations, what needs to be done needs to be done.
Yeah, I've done it, so I've killed it.
Havilah will need to return in the morning.
So dinner tonight will be once again a handful of limpets...
..at around seven calories a pop.
So I think we've got five each, I think.
I don't know if you want to count them up.
Whoa!
Wow!
Pop that in your mouth.
Thank you, big horse.
Well done.
It's like a lollipop, I can't believe it.
I know what it's like, and it's not a lollipop.
From here, it looks like a bellend.
Oh!
This tastes like her boyfriend's ball.
How I would imagine testicles taste.
And those limpets, bloody hell, oh, my God.
It reminded me of...
..if I was to put my boyfriend's testicle in my mouth
and take a bite...
..like, a rubbery consistency
and then a pop of, like, juice and goo,
and, oh, my God, I now can't get that image out of my head.
It makes me get thinking about it.
By the way, she's never teabagged him.
What does teabagging mean?
Who's going to explain that one?
Put the testicles in your mouth.
Why?
Why not?
Oh, Gillian, you dirty bitch.
Classy.
WHISTLE BLOWS
WHISTLE BLOWS
WHISTLE BLOWS
Another day, and once again, no breakfast.
Who'd like some pancakes and bacon?
Oh, damn.
Pancakes, bacon, maple syrup...
..stack.
George, can I get you anything?
Ravaged by hunger, Georgina is too frail to leave camp.
I'm absolutely floored
by what I can only presume is malnutrition.
I don't want to be the one who's ill or sickly
because I'm not that person at home.
There's enough people who need feeding and drinking
without just having a dead weight to carry.
OK, so...
..not nice, but if there is a birdie there,
you need to take a knife.
Havilah's bird tracking team
is now looking for the birdie.
They're looking for the birdie.
They're looking for the birdie.
They're looking for the birdie.
Havilah's bird trap, if successful,
could provide a much-needed meal.
Have you killed birds before age?
Yeah, but I don't like doing it.
It kind of was enforced on me as a child.
Insects have eaten my bait.
Trial and error, Georgie, trial and error.
But I need to go away and rethink it.
I think we are actually starving, you know?
You never sit at home and think,
oh, I'll just have one limb pit today,
or I won't eat today.
I'll eat in three weeks.
It just doesn't happen.
With Havilah's bird trap a failure,
there's no choice but to venture back into the jungle.
We're going to set some pig traps
so we can get some pigs.
What's your favourite type of pork?
I think it's got to be pulled pork, but done right.
Having come so close to making a kill 24 hours ago,
Laura and Beth and Belinda are back on the trail of the pig.
Let's try and find some tracks and trap it up.
It could be their only hope of keeping Georgina on the island.
Here's the dead-eaten crab, isn't it?
Mm-hm.
It's been here snuffling.
Stop on that branch right in front of you, darling.
There's a massive bird.
There's a massive boa.
See this branch here?
Look, at the top.
Wow.
Shall we try and catch it?
Yes.
I'm happy to go for him.
The boa constrictor snake is a formidable foe.
This guy will kill its prey by biting, grabbing,
then rapping and suffocating,
and then will swallow it whole.
They're very fast, they can strike half their body length,
and you do not want to get hurt.
You want to get a snake bite in a survival situation.
You see him?
I think he's gone, actually, inside, going down,
so he's probably going to come out in a minute.
Well, he's out. He's coming down!
He's out.
OK, now he's in striking mode.
The way to kill it is to pin its head.
If you control the head, you control the body,
and then either stave its head in with a rock
or cut its head off with a machete.
But if you can catch them,
this is great survival food.
Look at all the meat on this guy.
Whoa!
Right, there we go. There's your...
Well done, Bish. Got him.
Well done, well done, well done.
I didn't get him.
I didn't get him, I didn't get him.
Oh, she didn't, she didn't.
Man, you can even just do a machete on him.
Hold.
No.
Hold.
Good, good one, good one.
Well done, well done, well done.
OK, well done, guys. Well done, well done.
High five!
Yeah!
We seized the opportunity and just went and did it.
Oh, wow. Sorry, Mr Snake.
Snake starters followed by limpets and snails.
This is really going to lift the spirits on camp,
which is great.
Let's go home.
I wonder when on our jungle trekking days
how many things we went past without knowing.
Guys?
Yeah?
Guys?
Come back here really fucking slowly.
Where are you?
Shh!
Don't shout.
There, there, there, there, there.
There.
You see it?
Oh, yeah.
A pig.
Fucking hell.
Is it dead?
It's not dead.
It's just closed its eyes.
Here's the thing.
Do we jump it now?
Yep.
I don't know.
It seems like too much of a gift from the gods.
I'm not going to do it.
He's right here.
Basically, it's me.
I'm going to go for the head.
I'm going to go for the trunk.
Right now, I'm trying to get the noose around his neck.
They're going to come in straight out
and tie his face together.
If they need it, smack with a rock in front of them.
We can't always stay in.
We don't have the fucking game room.
We're strong.
We're big.
We're clean.
We're good.
I'm not going to think about it.
Yeah, of course.
Yeah.
We can't always stay in.
We don't have the fucking game room.
A hunting party led by Lauren
has stumbled across a sleeping pig
in the middle of the jungle.
It could offer salvation for Georgina,
who's desperately malnourished.
The law of the jungle
really is rooted in opportunity,
and you've got to take your chances when you can.
The women need to learn from passing decisions.
Just seize the moment.
The stakes are high.
If they fail,
the group are going to slide further into starvation.
Are we committed?
Yeah.
100%?
Yeah.
100%?
Yeah.
OK.
This time, they're prepared
and have sharp weapons for the kill.
OK.
Let's go.
Let's go.
Let's go.
Let's go.
Let's go.
Let's go.
All right.
OK.
All right.
All right.
All right.
OK.
Wait a minute.
I've got to get my hand to the door.
OK.
All right.
OK.
Wait.
Let's go.
Yeah.
What are we going to do?
Let's go.
We're going to take your chance.
OK.
Whatever.
All right.
Okay, everyone? Everyone okay?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Good. You okay, Beth?
Yeah.
Okay, I'm just gonna put the knife to the side, out of the way.
And we'll just wait. We'll just wait.
Oh, gosh, that's horrible.
You're amazing, Laura.
It's amazing what that looks like.
It's fucked up.
I don't know why I'm laughing. It's nerves.
It's complete adrenaline.
Oh, wow.
Good work, team.
It's quite amazing, wasn't it, really?
I'll never forget this.
What a day.
That's the most intense thing
that has ever fucking happened to me in my entire life.
It was something that was almost caveman-like.
We just sort of behaved in this really uniform way
that I never thought that I had in me.
Whoa!
And now we're gonna eat every single morsel,
not let one ounce of that little piggy go to waste.
H, we caught the pig.
Are you kidding? No.
That's what that is over there.
Are you kidding? I'm not fucking kidding.
Oh, my God, mind blown. I don't know what to say.
Thank you. Thank you!
Oh, my God, I'm gonna have...
Oh!
I'm so excited!
Jeez, Louise!
Yep.
And, Harvey, we have a starter.
Oh, my God, I've just seen it in that bucket.
Starters and me.
Do you know what? You guys, you're just more of a woman
than I'll ever be, all of you.
Did you hear, George? Oh, my God, I can't believe it.
Shit.
And...
My adrenaline is, like, through the roof.
Does it really get quite in the trap?
No, I was fast asleep and jumped it. Never.
Oh, my God.
For 34-year-old Georgina, the pig means more than just dinner.
Bloody hell, it's massive.
I'm just so made up. We've got food.
Oh, crap, I'm so happy.
I can't tell you the feeling of absolute relief
that's just run through my entire body
at the thought of having some food.
Lauren and Beth obviously do an incredible job.
I just can't believe it.
I could not have done that two and a half, three weeks ago.
If you'd have put me on the island and I'd have seen that ball,
I would have done my absolute most to stay away from it.
But I'm hungry now,
and my mind is not the same mind.
As it was three weeks ago.
The fire's all toasting, ready for it.
Even the vegetarian in the group, Jamie, is relieved for Georgina.
I love it. It's brilliant.
They have big legs on that thing, aren't they?
Lots of big legs.
I'm going to be on the bottom of me tonight.
The women will now have to butcher, skin and carve their kill.
It's not pleasant.
Dead pig smells.
Inside, I'm like...
You're going to be sick.
I've got to do it to survive.
Oh, dear.
A little bit of shit came out.
I'm starving, are you?
The pig will provide the women with roughly 50,000 calories.
Some fat, if anyone wants some fat.
For the first time, they have more food
than they can possibly eat in one sitting.
How is it, George?
Warm.
We have not eaten like this for, like, over three weeks,
and, my God, it's been a long time coming.
Could you buy that in a restaurant?
That fresh, that's rib.
Let's literally get the meat in my mouth now
and don't take it away.
Mmm.
Harvey, I can see you eating that with your eyes closed.
Are you having an orgasm while you're eating it?
Do you know what? I've never experienced this in my life.
I feel like a savage.
I've had so little calories in me every day,
and this pig may be my salvation.
You're going to turn it round now.
This will help you.
I've been rescued by the pig hunters.
My mother would be appalled if she saw me eating like this.
Sorry, Mum.
The pork's providing the women with a valuable source
of protein, fat, vitamins, minerals,
but more importantly, it's giving them what I call
the golden window of opportunity.
The women have about three days to capitalise on that win.
This is their chance to improve their quality of life
and use that energy to regroup and hunt again.
Hello, Mr Snake.
Hello, Mr Snake.
Look at that.
Now for the second course.
How are you feeling, Hobbs? Do you want to do it?
I'm going to do it. Go for it.
And despite her screamishness,
Havilah has volunteered to skin the snake.
Oh, look at that.
It's his oesophagus.
What it is?
I love to stuff a turkey at Christmas,
and it means you've got to get in the skin.
Ready? Like a sock.
Come on. Ready? There we go.
Wow. So, yeah, go very slow.
Yeah, got it.
Amazing.
I've just skinned a boa constrictor.
I'd never do that in my real life.
Well done. Not many girls could do that, you know.
Yeah. Not many.
And if anybody judges any of the girls,
here, for what they've done today,
they can fuck off.
I've been able to help everyone today,
and I'm really proud of that.
An incredible day.
Emotionally draining.
But the end result is that we have food,
and we'll be able to keep going for that bit longer.
Next time on The Women's Island...
Oh, my God!
That is the biggest shocker I've ever seen.
People are not prioritising the water,
and it's pissing me off.
The group is completely on their arse.
Julie! Julie!
I'm so weak.
We're going to have to pull the plug on this,
and I've got to think about removing you all from the island.
Boy, I love your skill.
Fine, let's have some tea on that.
Let's have some food but only at the hotel.
Thank you.
Oh, my God.
This is insane, really Rosa.
All right, everybody.
There it is.
I like it.
You're on theου
I like it.
Oh, wow.
Oh, wow.
Seriously.
I'm so killing it.
Irene, I want to go to the pool to see if my pod is cleaned up.
Well, I think we should go.
We were playing a game
and the only thing we were able to do
was bring Universal Neoер.
